# Reflection

Horizons – Digital Writing has challenged me and given me new avenues and ideas for my future in writing. Interactive Fiction was never something I ever thought about, and thus I wasn’t sure what ‘digital writing’ was nor how it differed from video games and the like. It was very interesting to learn about digital poetry such as Taroko Gorge (by Nick Monfort), The Dead Tower (by Andy Campbell and Mez Breeze), and even simple ones like Dadaist and N+7. Speaking of The Dead Tower, I found its original code-like writing mezangelle to be quite interesting and I’d love to write with something similar to it one day.
I came into the class with a bit of Twine and coding knowledge in my pocket which was certainly helpful, but I still learned much. I struggled in places, like how I found learning new software’s like Inform7 and Ren’Py to be intimidating at first (although Inform still intimidates me). After playing around with them however, I was able to understand some of their nuances and actually create some things. I created a short Inform7 experiment with characters based on Hololive (Cover Corp) talents, and I also created a short Bitsy experiment based on the hit video game ‘Among Us’ (made by Innersloth LLC). I learned new things about Twine and learned how much I don’t know. I learned that games I played in the past, an Interactive Fiction called Zork and a visual novel called Doki Doki Literature Club, could be made with software’s like inform7 and Ren’Py respectively.
I experimented with Ren’Py by creating the short VN I titled The Feudal Feud which followed a martial artist as he reunited with an old friend before facing down a corrupt lord. I then chose to use Ren’Py for my folio creative piece after realising its appropriateness to what I wanted to create, as well as that it really wasn’t too difficult to learn. I created another short VN this time titled ‘Doki Doki Super Special Story that’ll make your heart go Kyun~’ (or ‘Doki Doki SSS Kyun’ for short). The piece follows a bit of an annoying run-of-the-mill protagonist as he strives to get himself a girlfriend. Sadly for him it doesn’t work out as all roads lead to very different outcomes.
Now that this class is at its end, I’m more confident in my abilities as a digital writer and will likely create more digital pieces in the future (especially with Ren’Py). I now have the knowledge and the ability to look at an idea I have for a creative work and think “hmm, would this work better as an IF / digital piece?” which is pretty cool. I will likely build on some of the creative pieces I’ve made for this class as I would like to witness them in their absolute completion. Overall this class has been quite useful to me and I’m curious to see how I will use what I’ve learnt in the future.
